#summary Action definition.

= The Game Action Object = 

_Taken from "Object-Oriented Game Design" by Britt L. Hannah._

An Entity object can be composed partly of Action objects at runtime, and the Entity object invokes the Action objects to make things happen. As the name implies, an Action class is an implementation of some task that an entity can perform. More precisely, at runtime it is the incarnation of an event. Generally, when an event occurs there is some way to tell that it occurred. The Action object is the executing code that represents this event. Thus, it is a virtual representation of an event. Action classes are designed to modify pre-specified State objects, which indirectly alter the apparent behavior of Form objects and Entity objects. As I stated earlier, the State object is somewhat like a snapshot of a behavior, or behavior at a specific point in time. In counterpart to this, the Action object is like a movie, and almost quite literally as it drives the visuals and sounds in this system. More precisely, the Action object is a sequential expression of the states contained within an Entity object. To clarify, an Action object has no meaning at a specific point in time, as it exists across an interval of time. And, while the Action object exists, it exposes the current state of the Entity object that invoked it, and can even alter the current state of another Entity object.

==The Action Contains Entity and Uses State Relationship==

As Figure 2 shows, the Action class possesses a bi-directional relationship with the Entity class, and therefore contains Entity class references within itself. These references represent target entities that an Action object is invoked to affect. Through the Entity object relationship, an Action object also has references to all the State objects that define an instantiated Entity object. This ability to reference the State objects is a very important relationship. As described, the entities and their forms are merely a composition of states and actions, and therefore modifying a part of an entity through this relationship is, in effect, altering the entity. The State references are implemented in an Entity object using hashtables. The Action object queries an Entity object’s state hashtable for a desired State object, and if it is present then the Action object can operate on that State object. The State object may affect how the Action object executes or the State object may be altered by the Action, and in turn, can affect the execution of some other Action object. This relationship is naturally recursive as it cascades through the Entity objects in a running game: Action modifies State invokes Action etc.

As I claimed in the section on State objects, entities can affect each other without explicitly being created to do so, and they use the Action object to fulfill this claim. State objects drive the functionality of the Action objects, and specific action events are implemented to use predefined State objects. In this way, Action objects can be created separately from the game tokens that intend to use them, and yet be guaranteed work regardless of what game token they become a part of. This makes the Entity objects, and the eventual game tokens created from them, remarkably robust, and reusable.

An invoked Action object works through its references to Entity objects. One reference contained in an Action object represents the "UserEntity", and this is the Entity that invoked the Action. If the "UserEntity" has Game States that affect the Action they are handled through this reference, and the way the Action functions is altered by those states. Another reference is the "TargetEntity". The "TargetEntity" represents an Entity, other than the "UserEntity", that the Action object was invoked against, and its State objects are generally the states altered by the Action object. If there is no "TargetEntity", in other words if the "TargetEntity" reference is NULL, then the Action that was invoked by the "UserEntity" also affects the "UserEntity". The third Entity reference is a "TargetSet", which is used to define an Action that can affect groups of Entity objects. This set could be built from any of the entities contained in a game space, and is essentially a subset of a game space. Any Entity in the "TargetSet" whose State objects are valid will be affected by an Action invoked upon the set.

Having stated that Action objects are invoked, one might be wondering how they are invoked. An action can be invoked in two ways only. The first, and most obvious, method by which Action objects are invoked is input. A user provides an input event, and this input event can be mapped to a specific Action object that exists in a specific game token. The input invokes the action event and the action event continues to execute until it completes or until another input event cancels the action. This system can also allow for an AI user to provide action-invoking input, and provide feedback to inform the AI module of the results. However, such an AI entity would have to be designed with the framework of this system in mind. The second way an Action object can be invoked is through another Action object. This method can be subtle, and may not be easily understood. As an example, a game token, which represents an avatar, is going to invoke its Shoot action. The avatar, controlled by a user, invokes the Shoot action using an input event, a key-press. The Shoot action has as its "TargetEntity" another game token, the bad-guy. The Shoot action is one that is "self-canceling", in other words, it uses game constraints to determine its interval in time rather than waiting on input to cancel. While invoked the Action object checks for a collision with the bad-guy token, and if that collision occurs, it operates on State objects contained in the bad-guy. Since the Action object is already interacting with the bad-guy token, it checks that token’s Health state, and, if that State object meets certain constraints, the Action object invokes the Die action of the bad-guy token. This method of Action invokes Action is essentially a kind of ambient artificial intelligence.

==The Action Interfaces Core Services Relationship==

Figure 5 displays the relationship between the Action object and the core services, and, before going on, it is beneficial to point out that the Action object drives a game’s visuals and sounds in this system. Essentially, it does this by using interfaces to the core services. However, sound and visual effects can require optimization in order to work appropriately, and therefore Action does not have full control over visuals or sounds. The Action object is more like a natural manager of these aspects. It merely makes demands that a visual or sound be initiated, and the core services does its best to provide the appropriate graphics or sound effects to go along with the action event that is occurring. Usually, if the core services are properly implemented and optimized, there will be no problem providing display and audio service updates on demand.