#summary Explanation of a game entity.

= The Game Entity Object =

_Taken from "Object-Oriented Game Design" by Britt L. Hannah._

The Game Entity class is the focal point of the game development system I am describing. The Entity class possesses a relationship with every other class in the system. The Entity object is composed of all these objects when instantiated at runtime, and the runtime composition of all the basic objects in the system creates a much more sophisticated object, the game token. The Entity class is merely the concept of a game token. It is not THE game token. This is a very important distinction. An executing Entity object embodies everything that the game token is, while the Entity class is anything that a game token might become. What this means is that, a Game Entity class defined as a car, becomes a token that is a car in the context of a game at runtime, but until that occurs a Game Entity is everything and nothing. In other words, the game token is an Entity object that has form, possesses state, can perform actions, and exists in the game space while the Game Entity is just a blueprint for a game token. The relationships that the Entity object possesses with the other objects in the system that allow it to interact are provided through the Game Entity "blueprint". This system recognizes that all entities will be composed of form, composed of state, composed of action, and even composed of a space set as well as exist in a space set. By acknowledging these relationships, the system is a framework in which Entity objects can work cohesively at runtime. And, they do so, very well. Once the point of implementation is reached the programmer can use a game development system entity to create a definition for game token that will already have all the data references it needs to interact. By not having to design this interaction framework, the programmer can focus on what he/she wants or needs the game token to do rather than on how he/she is going to make the token do it, and this can be a tremendous time saver.

==The Entity Contains State Relationship==

Through this relationship the game development system recognizes that an instantiated Entity object can have its own states. In other words, the runtime game token can possess states separate from those of the Form object it is partly composed of. This is extremely useful for "descriptive" data like names. While the states of a Form object hold data that can alter the way that Form object presents itself to a display system, to contain superfluous data, like a name, inside the Form object is inefficient. By keeping data inside the Entity object that is not critical to the way a Form object interacts with other objects in virtual space, one can make Form objects that are very robust, and useable by many different types of games. And, if the meta-data of the states inside the Entity class is carefully considered, the Entity class can also be extremely re-useable.

==The Entity Contains Form Relationship==

I have stressed several times that separation of the Entity from the Form should be maintained. This allows the Entity class to be generalized. Therefore, it can be used to define any type of game token imaginable. Since only the designer can define how a game token is supposed to behave, and what it’s supposed to look like, keeping the Entity class general in this manner is very useful. Additionally, there are no constraints on the Form object as to the dimensions of its mesh. This provides for the Entity object to utilize two or three-dimensional objects to represent its appearance. Thus, the Entity object can look like a 2D user-interface component as easily as it can look like a 3D avatar. By acknowledging this relationship the development system I am describing allows the Entity class to define a game token that can be displayed as anything.

==The Entity Uses Space and Contains Action Relationship==

The relationships that allow an Entity object to interact with other Entity objects are the relationships with the Space object and the Action object. As mentioned earlier, the Space class is used to define sets of Entity objects. An Entity object uses references to these sets to acquire Action object references, which the Action object then uses to affect the entities that it ‘targets’ or references.

For example, we could define an Entity as, for the sake of argument, a planet surface. To represent this planet surface we create a mesh of various terrain features, and incorporate this into our Form object and reference the Form object with our Entity object, which we have dubbed planet surface. Since all Form objects can contain Space objects, and Space objects are sets of entities, we can define other entities and make them part of that set. Since all the entities in the set are composed of Form objects, which are derived from RenderableObjects, and contain all the states necessary to be positioned in any way desired in three-dimensional space, we can define Action objects for the Entity object, which we defined as a planet surface, that can easily affect this set of entities. The action "ApplyGravity()" comes to mind, as does the action "SetEntityZToPlanetSurfaceZ@XY()".

As the preceding sections of this article have described, the Entity class is extremely connected in this system. However, the endpoints of these connections are as generalized as possible. This generalization allows an Entity class to be so flexible that it can be molded into anything desired by a programmer. Yet, the connections themselves are specialized, and this specialization provides a guarantee that these generalized objects will have a stable framework in which to interact. Yet again, these generalized classes can be defined to work together in a specialized way, thus becoming a game token. Using all the classes and relationships which this article has described thus far, one can create any type of game token they desire. Through its State object relationship an Entity object can possess personalized data, such as a name. Through the Form object relationship an Entity object can look like anything imaginable in 2D or 3D form. Through the Form object’s State object relationship the Entity object can possess data that affects its behavior in virtual space. Through the Form object’s Space object relationship the Entity object can hold other Entity objects within itself, thus becoming a world within a world. Through the Space object relationship that an Entity object possesses it can reference ANY other Entity object currently active in the runtime code. And, finally, through the Action object relationship an Entity object can alter another Entity object or modify that Entity object’s behavior. What more could one possibly want from a game token?