#summary Form description in th Entuty System

= The Game Form Object =

_Taken from "Object-Oriented Game Design" by Britt L. Hannah._

The Form class is a derivation of a RenderableObject. In this system it is the only type of object that gets rendered. The purpose served by an instantiated Form object is, usually, very simple. It is used to represent any shape that an entity needs to be implemented to possess. A user (the person playing the game) will observe this object to BE the game token, while in truth it is not. A programmer should, at all costs, avoid becoming confused on this issue. In order to render things effectively to computer display systems, render loops must operate as expeditiously as possible. This system separates form from function to help achieve effective rendering, and to help create reusable Form classes. The idea is that we want a generalized Entity class that can use any type of Form object to represent its appearance. The Form class contains a Mesh. Utilizing this mesh, an instantiated Form object can be any shape a 3D Modeler can make, and this allows the Form object to look like anything a game designer wants it to. This allows for a very versatile Entity class to be created. And, since the Form object is separate from an Entity object (the game token), one can collect and sort the Form object in any way required for rendering. This can be extremely useful for sorting objects with regards to the types of render states each object requires.

==The Form Contains State Relationship==

Through this relationship Form objects can contain State objects, and these State objects can modify the behaviors that a Form object can exhibit in virtual space. What we want is a reusable Form object that can be used by an Entity object to represent shape. Generally, game designers and implementers want the game token to appear to exhibit the behavior it would be expected to exhibit if it were real, and the States objects are used to make this happen. These State objects are used to modify the function of a game token, and they are included in the Form object, which makes the Form object self-sufficient. In other words, the Form object possesses everything within itself, that other entities need to manipulate it.

However, the fact that State objects ARE contained in the Form object is more important than what or why. The power of making "fast" faster rather than making a specific type of game token faster has already been mentioned, and this relationship enforces that doing so affects a general object rather than a specialized object. In essence the game system is acknowledging the relationship rather than the state data or the Form object. In this way the system can utilize all Form objects in the same manner regardless of what shape the Form object is supposed to be or what behavior the state data is intended to represent. This is a powerful concept in creating reusable entities.

==The Form Contains Space Relationship==

Entity contains Form, Form contains Space, and Space uses sets of Entity objects. This relationship has more meaning in relevance to the Action object, which works within the Space objects. For now it can be said that an Entity object can be implemented to represent a virtual space. This Entity object can contain a Form object, which can be used to represent the volume of that space. Since a Form object can contain Space objects, other entities can be implemented, and contained within the Form object through its relationship with Space objects. As mentioned, Action objects work within Space objects, and can be implemented to affect entire sets of entities. An Action object could make use of the mesh data contained in the Form object to impose constraints on the positioning of the entities contained within the Form object’s virtual space. It could just as easily utilize any State object data associated with the Form object to alter the States of all the entities in the set. This would make it a trivial matter to move sets of entities contained in other entities around in virtual space.